# Pizza Delivery Pro

## Play the Game
**Unity Play Link**: https://play.unity.com/en/games/af0c6056-0dfc-47ee-8e8c-8e89348b2f8b/pizza-delivery-pro

## Game Description
In Pizza Delivery Pro, players aim to earn the most cash possible by delivering pizzas to houses in a neighborhood while avoiding old pizza boxes on the road. Players win the level by earning some specified amount of cash after completing all the deliveries, and lose if they earn less than the required amount. Houses with two bills in front of them will pay $20 for a pizza delivery, while houses with one bill in front of them will pay $10 for a pizza delivery. Players must deliver pizzas to every house before the level ends and decides if they win or lose. If players hit an old pizza box in the road, they will lose $5 to repair the damage to their car from the hit.

The level will start by displaying the cash amount the player must earn to pass the level on the screen along with a play button. Players press the play button to begin deliveries. Their car will be right next to the pizza parlor. Drive the car over the pizza outside the parlor to pick it up. A pizza icon will appear above the car to indicate that one is picked up. Players will drive the car on the road through the neighborhood to find houses with cash that want to buy it. Drive the car over the cash icon to deliver the pizza to that house and earn cash. Once the pizza has been successfully delivered, a cash icon will appear above the car for a couple seconds, along with a short boost of speed and green particle effect surrounding the car. Some words will also appear in the top left corner of the screen confirming the transaction. The amount of cash they have earned so far will be displayed in the top right of the screen. If they hit any of the old pizza boxes in the road, the cash they have earned so far will decrease by $5 to pay for car repairs, which words in the top left corner of the screen will notify of. Any boosted speed from a successful delivery will prematurely return to the original speed as well. When all of the houses have pizzas delivered and their cash has been collected, the level has been completed. Words will pop up in the center of the screen to notify players of how much cash they earned, as well as a star rating of how well they did. If they earned the required amount of cash, they won the level, but if they did not earn enough, they lost the level. Whether players won or lost, they can click the restart button if they want to try the level again, and if they won, they can click another button to continue on to the next one.

What makes this game engaging and fun is the simulation aspect of it and the ease of play. The game transports players into a detailed neighborhood complete with roads, trees, bushes, rocks, fences, houses, and more. Players can drive the pizza delivery car anywhere on the road. These aspects make the game engaging because it simulates a neighborhood pizza delivery as it could be in real life. The game is also easy to play. The controls are simple, just the WASD keys or arrow keys to steer the car, and a left click at the beginning and end of levels. It is relatively easy for players to earn cash, as there is no time aspect and as long as players do not hit old pizza boxes an excessive amount, they will earn a profit. This ensures that the game is not too challenging for players and they will have fun playing it. However, there also is a challenge aspect if players think it is too easy. There is a star rating at the end of the level, where players do not have to get five stars to win, but can aspire to do by repeatedly playing the levels until they do not hit any of the old pizza boxes, which will grant them the five stars. This also adds fun for the players, as they do not have to play to this difficulty to win, but have the option if they require more of a challenge. Lastly, the various sound effects make the game pleasing to hear and play.

## Technical Implementation
- Levels:
    There are two levels in this game currently. Each level has its own cash goal for players to earn to beat the level and different cash amounts that correspond to each star. The levels are each their own scene, with level 1 being an easier version of level 2 so that players can get the feel for the game before getting to the harder level. In the main script, the levels are changed by moving to the next scene in the build index, and the cash values required to win and get certain star amounts are stored in lists within lists indexed first by the build index.
- Sprites: 
    There are many different types of sprites in this game. The background is composed of house, road, tree, bush, fence, and rock sprites. There are transparent guards for the roads that are square, circle, and closed shape sprites with box, circle, and polygon colliders on them so the car can 'bump' into them. The car players drive is also a sprite, with a rigidbody and box collider so it bumps and pushes things around. The pizzas and cash bills around the scene are also sprites that have colliders labeled as triggers so the script knows when the car drives over them. Lastly, the old pizza boxes in the road are sprites with a polygon collider and rigidbody so the car can bump into them and push them around.
- Prefabs: 
    There are many different prefabs in this game. The background utilizes treeline, bushline, and fenceline ones so I didn't need to place every tree in the line individually mulitple times. The guards for the roads are prefabs based on their shape, with square, circle, and closed shape ones. This makes it so that I didn't have to configure each guard to have its specific collider, shape, and coloring, as there are many guards and this would have taken a long time. The cash icons are prefabs, too, because there are a lot of them, so I didn't have to configure their individual colliders and trigger. Lastly, the old pizza boxes in the road are a prefab, so I didn't have to configure the collider and rigidbody for each one. The use of prefabs in this game saved me a lot of time during its development.
- Colliders:
    There are many different colliders in this game to detect collisions between the car and its surroundings. The guards on the sides of the roads have square, circle, and polygon colliders to fit their sprite and keep the car from driving off the road. The pizza and cash sprites have circle and polygon colliders that are labeled as a trigger to the script knows when the car drives over them to run the trigger function and deal out positive effects. The old pizza boxes in the road have polygon colliders on them so the script knows when it collides with the car so it can push it around and deal the negative effects. Lastly, the car itself has a collider, so the script knows when it collides with other things and can interact with them.
- Rigidbodies:
    There are two examples of rigidbodies in this game. The car is a rigidbody so it can use physics to interact with other objects, such as pushing and bumping into things. The old pizza boxes in the road are also rigidbodies so it is able to be pushed around by the car and bump into the walls. The use of rigidbodies in this game makes it more realistic for the player to experience.
- Triggers: 
    There are a couple of different triggers in this game. The pizza in front of the pizza parlor is a trigger so that the script runs a function when the car runs over it. This allows the pizza icon to be displayed over the top of the car and the pizza on the ground to disappear until it has been delivered. The cash icons are also triggers, so when the car drives over them, the script knows to display the cash on top of the cash, destroy the cash in front of the house, update the cash the player has earned, start the particle effect, and apply the boost speed. Without triggers, it would be much harder to tell types of collisions apart from each other.
- UI Text:
    There are a couple of UI Text elements in this game. First, at the start of a level, there is UI text that appears informing the player of the goal of the level, along with a start button. In the top right, the amount of cash the player has earned is displayed and dynamically updates, so the player is always able to check their progress. There is another piece of text in the top left corner that gives feedback to the player. When a delivery is completed, it notifies the user of how much money they earned from it. When a pizza box in the road is hit, it notifies the player that they hit it and how much cash they lose. Also, when a player tries to collect cash without a pizza to deliver, it tells the player that they need a pizza first to be able to complete the delivery. Lastly, there is some UI Text that appears when the level has been completed to inform the user that the level is over and of how much cash they earned, and if they won or not. Restart and continue buttons can also be displayed.
- Sprite Movement: 
    The movement of the player sprite, or the car, is controlled by the "Drive" script. The script takes input from the keyboard and determines whether to move the car forward or backwards, and if it should steer the car to the right or left. There is also a clause which flips the car after a certain amount of rotation, so that the car isn't able to drive 'upside-down' or over-rotate.
- Particle System:
    There is a particle system that has been implemented in this game which takes place after a successful delivery. It is configured as a sphere shape in the center of the car which emits small, moderately-paced particles for a short distance. This gives the car a bit of a 'halo' look with the particles surrounding it. When there is successful delivery, this particle effect is enabled for a short time to give a visual cue to the player, after which it is turned off and the car returns back to its normal state. There is also a particle system that emits when the player picks up a pizza. It is configured as a cone shape in the center of the car which emits small, fast particles up for a short time. It signals to the player that they have picked a pizza up.
- GameObject Management:
    During gameplay, there are many times when game objects are destroyed, created, or modified. When the car runs over the pizza in front of the parlor, the trigger function sets the pizza to inactive so it doesn't show up in the scene until a delivery has been completed. When a car with a pizza runs over a cash icon in front of a house, the trigger function destroys the cash icon so it cannot be picked up again, representing that that house has already received a delivery. The pizza and cash icons that appear on top of the car are also set as active and inactive based on the trigger function; when a pizza is picked up, the pizza on top of the car is set to active, and when cash has been picked up, the pizza is set to inactive and the cash is set to active. The dynamics of the game objects in this game makes it more engaging to the users.
- Game Release:
    This game will be released as a web-build so it is able to be played on a web browser online at Unity Play.

## Future Development Plan
To develop this game further, I would add additional levels with increased difficulty. The pizza boxes in the road could be bigger so players have to be more careful driving as to not hit them. The amounts of cash that each house gives could be decreased as well so that players do not have as much cash they can afford to lose. I could also keep track of how much cash a player has earned in their lifetime, and they could exchange some of it for 'upgrades' to their pizza parlor or delivery car. These upgrades could include greater speed, smaller size, able to hold multiple pizzas at once or other ways players can make the game easier for them and expand the storyline. Another challenge I could implement as players get deeper into the game is a timer that players have to complete all deliveries under. This would make it so that players are put under pressure in a time constraint and cannot take their time going around all the pizza boxes in the road as they could with no timer. One other extension could be to make players have to deliver each pizza to a certain house in a predefined order, which would make the game more challenging than being able to deliver to any house as it is right now. This would also make the game more realistic and add to the storyline aspect. All of these ideas would help make this small, two-level game into a full-fledged game with many levels and features that will make it that much more enjoyable for players.


## Development Reflection
The most difficult part of this assignment was controlling all of the game objects in the scene at once. For the background alone, there are so many assets I needed to place to make the scene appear detailed. Prefabs made this easier, but it is hard to prefab things like houses that all have different positions and are different images. Once the background was completed, the movement of the car made an interesting challenge that the image would rotate 360 degrees and look like the car was driving upside-down. I had to figure out a way to make it flip orientation once it reached a certain degree to make it not go upside-down and look more realistic.
Overall, as I completed this assignment I learned more about how the physics of the sprites work and how to control it to make the sprites do what I want (like the car example above). I also learned how to modify the UI elements in greater detail, like how I made the star system and occasional feedback the players would get that doesn't show up in a specific position in the scene, but a specific position on the screen. Lastly, I learned about triggers and how to set an object to a trigger, tag it, and control it from the script. Next time, I would probably try to work out all of the logistics of my game before starting to develop it. I was not really sure where I wanted to go with it when I started it and thought that if I at least got the basic mechanics down then I could go from there, but it led to me having to go back and switch some elements because I hadn't originally developed them with future use in mind. If I had sat down and written down all of the details of the game that I wanted to implement before I started, I think it would have saved me a lot of time and effort that I had lost to going back and changing what I had originally implemented for the start of my idea.


## Limitations
- Due to time, collider boundaries are not completely exact, there many be some instances where the car appears to be driving on the edge of the road, but it is still fully functional.


## Credits
- Car Sprite Image: "Red Car" by yeet on OpenGameArt.org
- Pizza Sprite Image: "Some Fast Food" by KASTLE Knight on OpenGameArt.org
- Money Sprite Images: "Money Icon" by Nguyen Ho on OpenGameArt.org
- Billboard Image: "Billboards" by looneybits on OpenGameArt.org
- Empty Pizza Box Sprite Image: "Recycle items set" by Clint Bellanger on OpenGameArt.org
- Stars Sprite Image: "Stars Icon for UI" by Alexander123 on OpenGameArt.org
- Neighborhood roads, trees, rocks, houses, fences, and bushes from Professor Cordova's "CarAssets" in Canvas
- Purchase Sound Effect: "JRPG Style UI Sounds" by KillaMaaki on OpenGameArt.org
- Run over pizza box sound effect: "Crash Collision" by qubodup on OpenGameArt.org
- Pick up pizza sound effect: "Beep Tone Sound SFX" by qubodup on OpenGameArt.org
- Lose Level Sound Effect: "Game Over Sound(Old School) by den_yes on OpenGameArt.org
- Win Level Sound Effect: "Applause" by Blender Foundation on OpenGameArt.org
- Background Music: "Free - Casual & Relaxing Game Music Pack" by SLD Audio on Unity Asset Store